The 2016 presidential election was one of the closest and most polarizing elections in United States history. Donald Trump defeated Hilary Clinton due to a majority in the electoral vote, although he lost the popular vote. The election was also monumental because of the harsh and unconventional rhetoric that candidates used to get ahead, especially through marketing campaigns. To provide some background, the United States presidential election works through an Electoral College system, in which each state gets a certain number of electors based on its total number of representatives in Congress. There are a total of 538 electoral votes, and the candidate with more than 270 votes wins the election regardless of the result of the popular vote1. Due to the “winner-takes-all” method most states use to determine their presidential electors, candidates often campaign extensively in competitive states, resulting in a majority of presidential election advertisements flooding broadcast television in select states. The states that are most crucial to a president’s victory are swing states, which typically have very competitive polling results and do not historically side towards any particular political party. In 2016, the swing states were Nevada, Arizona, Colorado, Iowa, Wisconsin, Michigan, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Virginia, North Carolina, Florida, New Hampshire2. Our research aims to explore relationships between presidential election ads, voting statistics, and election results. We hope that this analysis can be used to better understand the unique outcome of the 2016 election, and possibly guide or inform future election advertisement campaign strategies.
